ResultsinEngineering20(2023)101412
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Results in Engineering
journal homepage: www.sciencedirect.com/journal/results-in-engineering
Integration of renewable energy and sustainable development with
strategic planning in the mining industry
Mahdi Pouresmaielia, Mohammad Ataeia,\*\*, Ali Nouri Qarahasanloub, Abbas Barabadic,\*
aFaculty of Mining, Petroleum and Geophysics, Shahrood University of Technology, Shahrood, Iran
bFaculty of Technical & Engineering, Imam Khomeini International University, Qazvin, Iran
cDepartment of Engineering and Safety, University of Tromsø, N-9037, Tromsø, Norway, Tromsø, Norway
A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T
Keywords: With an increase in the world population, the global demand for minerals is rising, increasing energy con-
Renewable energy sumption. Due to the distance of mines from urban areas, the energy required for mining is highly dependent on
Mining fossil fuels. Using renewable energies is an effective solution to reducing this problem. This study examines the
Sustainable development
challenges and opportunities of integrating renewable energy into mining operations and the impact of this
Strategic management
integration on the attainment of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The present study also investigates the
SWOT
strategic management of renewable energy use in the mining sector via the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportu-
nities, and Threats (SWOT) method. The results indicate that despite the high potentialities of renewable energy
in mining, much more investigation is required for the technical use of this technology in the mining industry.
Using renewable energy can create new jobs, reduce environmental pollution, increase knowledge in the mining
area, create a circular economy in the mining industry, and reduce mining operating costs. All mentioned factors
can have a positive effect on sustainable development indicators. On the other hand, mine owners’ lack of in-
formation about the positive effects of renewable energy, high investment, lack of skilled labor, and high
maintenance costs can create challenges for using renewable energy in mines. The SWOT strategic management
analysis results demonstrate that the strengths and possible opportunities of using this technology in mining
outweigh the weaknesses and possible threats. Hence, the aggressive strategy, defined as the maximum use of
strengths to benefit from created opportunities optimally, is suggested.
1. Introduction significant indicators of economic growth in various countries [3]. More
energy is needed to produce the required materials because of increased
The mining industry encompasses five critical phases: exploration, demand for raw materials and a decrease in high-grade resources. More
extraction, exploitation, processing, and refining. It is a cornerstone energy consumption potentially boosts the amount of greenhouse gas
industry, providing essential raw materials for many sectors, including emissions [4], which signifies the adverse impacts of mining activities
transportation, construction, aerospace, high-tech technology, energy, on the environment. Therefore, exploring and identifying and identi-
and mining. As the renowned German physicist Max Planck once stated, fying these environmental effects and taking measures to eliminate them
’Mining may not be everything, but without mining, everything is is paramount. Efficient energy utilization throughout mining operations,
nothing.’ With the global population steadily increasing and numerous spanning mineral extraction to product manufacturing, and adopting
low-income nations aspiring to reach the per capita income levels of renewable energy sources and effective carbon capture techniques are
middle-income countries, the demand for minerals is poised to experi- pivotal strategies for mitigating energy consumption and greenhouse
ence substantial growth [1]. Nowadays, developed countries have gas emissions. This collective effort ultimately leads to a reduction in
devoted more attention to mineral recycling. However, the critical role environmental pollution. To achieve these objectives, harnessing the
of the mining industry as the main source of raw material production is synergy of multiple renewable energy sources and addressing the com-
indisputable [2]. Mineral production is regarded as one of the most plex challenges associated with their seamless integration within the
\* Corresponding author.
\*\* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: ataei@shahroodut.ac.ir (M. Ataei), abbas.b.abadi@uit.no (A. Barabadi).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2023.101412
Received 12 August 2023; Received in revised form 3 September 2023; Accepted 9 September 2023
Availableonline16September2023
2590-1230/©2023TheAuthors.PublishedbyElsevierB.V.ThisisanopenaccessarticleundertheCCBYlicense(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
mining sector is imperative. The energy use of the mining industry in 2021 in the whole world is
Energy consumption for mineral extraction is of two types: off-grid estimated to be about 12,000 PJ (1 PJ (PJ) =31.6 million m3 of natural
and grid-connected. In plenty of mines, most energy is supplied by off- gas or 278 million kilowatt hours of electricity) (’MINING ENERGY
grid plants. Depending on the type of fossil fuels used in these mines, CONSUMPTION ’). In many developing countries, the mining sector has
diesel, heavy oil, or coal is burnt to manufacture and transport minerals a significant share of energy consumption. For instance, the mining in-
in the mineral extraction stage [5]. Nevertheless, grid-connected mining dustry consumes around 50% of the energy used in Zambia [8]. Because
operations partially rely on fossil fuels. The grid provides the least costly of using a great deal of energy, the mining industry emits large amounts
energy source for mining operations in the mining sites where the grid is of greenhouse gases, destructively affecting water and air quality (T
available. However, many countries with unreliable grid sources have to 2020a).
utilize backup energy sources generally powered by fossil fuels in min- The impacts of energy consumption on climate change are undeni-
ing sites, which raises production costs. able. For example, previous studies have demonstrated that the global
Among the foremost cost drivers within mining operations, energy production of copper concentrates, iron, and bauxite is responsible for
expenditure reigns supreme. Typically, energy costs represent a sub- the emission of 30, 17, and 0.8 Mtpa CO2-eq worldwide [8]. The mining
stantial portion, ranging from 15% to 40%, of the overall operational industry utilizes much energy for mining operations, negatively influ-
expenses in the mining sector. A significant chunk of mining endeavors encing climate change.
revolves around the generation and provisioning of energy, with a Beneficiaries of diminishing the use of fossil fuels are trying to
notable reliance on fossil fuels to meet these energy demands. Conse- develop equipment that boosts the application of renewable energy in
quently, the mining industry remains highly susceptible to the ebbs and the mining industry to lessen greenhouse gas emissions [4,9]. The
flows in fossil fuel prices, making it intricately entwined with energy integration of renewable energies into various industries entails the
market dynamics (Fig. 1). It is speculated that the energy demand for identification of energy-intensive processes. The mining industry in-
mining operations will be raised by 36% by 2035, compared to 2018 [6]. cludes blasting (if necessary), producing, transporting, crushing, pro-
Apart from the economic dimension, the dependence of mining on cessing, smelting, and refining minerals (Awuah-Offei 2016; [7]. It is
fossil fuels negatively influences the well-being of local communities, essential to align various mining operations with renewable energy
infrastructure, air and water quality, and the environment. Hence, it can technology to obtain desirable outcomes [10,11].
harm sustainable development goals (N. 2019). Sustainable develop- Studies on using renewable energies in mines can be categorized into
ment is a prerequisite for attaining human development objectives since three major groups. Studies in the first group explore the potential of
it preserves natural resources and ecosystem services on which the integrating renewable energies into mines located in remote areas and
economy and society depend. In general, sustainable development primarily using off-grid energy sources. These mines either consume
comprises 17 core goals, and the use of fossil fuels has direct and indirect fossil fuels or rely on electricity that is produced by diesel generators
adverse effects on these goals. Using renewable energy in mining op- [12,13]. Studies in the second group exclusively focus on renewable
erations can regulate the operational costs of mines and reduce energies, for instance, wind and solar systems (Klass and Mitchell 2022;
destructive impacts on the pillars of sustainable development, i.e., the [14]. Studies in the last group limit their investigations to specific areas
economy, society, and the environment [5]. and focus on the opportunities and challenges of using renewable en-
The mining industry is one of the industries requiring a great amount ergies in certain countries [6]. Few studies have thoroughly investigated
of energy. This industry accounts for approximately 38% of the energy the consumption of renewable energy in mines. 2020, about 5 GW of
utilized in all industries, 15% of the global electricity consumption, and renewable energy projects were planned or cumulatively implemented
11% of global energy use. Furthermore, the mining industry uses about in mines [5]. This energy is a small proportion of the total energy
19% of coal and coal products worldwide. It accounts for 5% of global consumed in mines.
natural gas and 2% of global oil consumption (Awuah-Offei 2016; [7]. Strategic planning studies regarding integrating renewable energy
Fig. 1. Average fluctuations in diesel prices from 1960 to 2022 (USD/Gal) (’Diesel prices’) (’statista.com’ 2023).
2M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
sources into mining operations have revealed substantial research in this Table 1
domain. However, much-existing research has primarily focused on the Greenhouse gas and energy use for selected metals.
conceptual aspects of incorporating renewable energy within the mining Metal Feed Process or route Greenhouse Gross energy
context. While conceptual studies are undeniably vital in shaping in- gasses requirement
dustry perspectives, the absence of quantitative analyses undermines (KWh/t) (MtCO2-eq/
confidence in adopting these technologies. Consequently, this article MT)
comprehensively examines renewable energy’s application in the min- Gold Refractory Refectory or route 85019200 26840
ing sector, particularly emphasizing its impact on sustainable develop- ore (3.5 g
Au/t ore)
ment metrics. Furthermore, SWOT strategic planning aims to furnish a
Non- Non-refractory or 55829200 17560
lucid and quantifiable perspective on the utilization of renewable energy refractory route
within the mining industry and its ramifications on diverse sustain- ore (3.5 g
ability indicators. Au/t ore)
As previously introduced in the initial section of this article, we laid Titanium Ilmenite Becher and Kroll 101080 35.7
(36.0% Ti) processes
the foundation for understanding the application of renewable energy in
Aluminum Bauxite ore Bayer refining, 59080 22.4
the mining sector. Moving forward, the second section delves into the (17.4% Al) Halle Heroult
intricate challenges that have emerged within the mining industry, smelting
particularly those about energy supply. Sections 3 and 4 comprehen- Nickel Laterite ore Pressure acid 54320 16.1
(1.0% Ni) leaching, solvent
sively explore both the challenges and prospects associated with inte-
extraction, and
grating renewable energy within mining operations. In Section 5, we electrowinning
employ the SWOT strategic management model to craft an optimal Sulfide ore Flash furnace 31920 11.4
strategy for seamlessly integrating renewable energy into mining prac- (2.3% Ni) smelting and
tices. Sections 6 and 7 are dedicated to the ensuing discussion and Sherritt-Gordon
refining
conclusive remarks.
Stainless Multiple Electric furnace 21000 6.8
steel ores and Argon
2. energy challenges in the mining industry Oxygen
decarburization
Copper Sulfide ore Heap leaching, 17920 6.2
Minerals produced worldwide are generally classified into four
(2.0% Cu) solvent
groups: industrial minerals, metal minerals, aggregates, and mineral extraction, and
fuels [20]. The global production of the metal mining sector was around electrowinning
9945.3 million cubic meters until 2020, and its income reached 2520.6 Zinc Sulfide ore Electrolytic 13440 4.6
(5.5% Pb, process
billion dollars [19. Based on the available historical data, mineral prices
86% Zn)
are generally cyclical. In other words, mineral prices are booming in one
Sulfide ore Imperial smelting 10080 3.3
period while in another period, they enter stagnation. The mining sector (5.5% Pb, process
has always been under the strictest supervision due to the social benefits 86% Zn)
of mining, the great influence of mining on government policies, mining Copper Sulfide ore Smelting, 9240 3.3
(3.0% Cu) converting and
income increase during the mineral boom (as expected by the govern-
electro-refining
ment), the importance of workers’ health and safety, and the ecological Lead Sulfide ore Imperial smelting 8960 3.2
effects of mining on the surrounding environment. In many developing (5.5% Pb, process
countries, owing to the large scope of this industry, government policies 86% Zn)
Sulfide ore Lead blast furnace 5600 2.1
and energy allocation for mining operations gain much more impor-
(5.5% Pb,
tance. For example, in countries where approximately 50% of energy is
86% Zn)
consumed in the mining sector [15], the government is reluctant to Steel Iron ore Integrated route 6440 2.3
integrate renewable energies into this industry since some people may (64% Fe) (blast (oxygen)
lose their jobs. As a result, even if the mining industry can use renewable furnace)
energies in these countries, some local factors and government policies
constrain their integration into mines.
world in 2021 [18].
Mining is typically divided into five key stages: drilling and blasting,
loading, transportation, processing, and smelting and refining. Hence, it
2.1. Grade reduction in mines
is regarded as one of the most energy-intensive industries. Predictions
show that energy use will be elevated in the short and medium terms.
A decrease in the average mineral grade at the surface level has
Given this industry’s rejection of renewable energy, the majority of this
pushed the mining industry to penetrate deeper into the ground to reach
increased demand for energy will be met by using more fossil fuels, a higher grade of minerals to fulfill the market’s needs. Gaining access to
which augments the generation of carbon dioxide and the emission of
higher-grade minerals in the depths of the earth entails extracting a
greenhouse gases [16].
larger volume of minerals. Thus, it is required to consume much more
Table 1 demonstrates energy consumption and greenhouse gas
energy to extract, transport, load, and process minerals in mining sites.
emissions in the mining processes of some metals. Based on previous
Previous studies have shown that a decline in the average grade of
studies, gold extraction requires high energy, which raises greenhouse
ore, along with an increase in demand for minerals, brings about the
gas emissions [17]. This substantial energy use can mainly be attributed
extraction of more raw mineral materials from the depths of the ground,
to reducing gold deposits in mines. To be more precise, a decrease in
leading to higher levels of greenhouse gas emission [19]. Furthermore,
gold deposits forces miners to penetrate deep into the earth, which re-
the remoteness of most mines from processing factories poses challenges
quires more energy to extract gold. Based on the available data, the
concerning energy supply chains. Supplying fuels, transporting min-
amount of extracted gold was about 3000 metric tons (Mt) in 2021.
erals, accessing mining sites, and establishing and expanding necessary
Based on the data in Table 1, the energy consumption and greenhouse
infrastructure in mines raise energy consumption and generate more
gas emissions in 2021 and 2007 were equal. Approximately 167–254
greenhouse gases.
TW h (TWh) of energy were used for gold production in 2021. This in-
dicates that gold mining emitted 52 to 81 million tons of CO2 into the
3M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
2.2. Instability of mineral and fuel prices 3. Challenges of integrating renewable energies in the mining
industry
Supply and demand shocks in the mining industry affect the prices of
energy and minerals, resulting in economic uncertainty about the costs The use of renewable energy in the mining industry is on the rise.
and revenues of mining activities. In the worst-case scenario, there is a Nonetheless, the present technical challenges have hindered and
rise in expenses and a drop in mining income, which reduces the profit restricted the application of renewable technologies on a large scale.
margins for mining companies and mine owners. Sharp price fluctua- This section discusses some challenges of incorporating renewable en-
tions sometimes lead to temporary or permanent mine closure. On ergy in mining.
average, 15–40% of operational costs in mines are related to energy and
fuel consumption [6]. Fossil fuels, which supply a large proportion of 3.1. Material consumption in processing operations
energy for mines, generally have price fluctuations due to currency price
variations, tariffs, supply chain logistics, and political and economic In mining operations highly dependent on fossil fuels as feedstocks, it
policies in countries. For instance, from 2011 to 2014, oil prices were is difficult to thoroughly replace these fuels with renewable energies and
mostly above 100 dollars. Between 2014 and 2021, the price of oil stop carbon emissions. Biomass (charcoal) can be utilized as an alter-
varied between 29 and 75 dollars (except for April 2020, when the oil native to coke in mining operations. The sustainable global production
price reached zero). When conducting this study, the oil price was 94 of charcoal, the costs of transporting it to processing factories, and the
dollars. Fluctuations in energy prices and reductions in metal prices may complicated technical issues associated with charcoal use in the steel
endanger the life of some projects since their implementation has no industry have always been among the most serious challenges of using
economic justification, and price fluctuations create great economic this energy in this industry (Papadis and Tsatsaronis 2020). Hydrogen is
uncertainty for stakeholders. Therefore, one of the biggest concerns of also deemed a suitable alternative raw material to fossil fuels. From an
mine owners and mining companies is ensuring they earn profits in in- environmental perspective, water is a more promising source of
vestment in this industry despite these price variations [11]. renewable electricity generation than coal. However, its high price is the
biggest obstacle to the constant use of hydrogen for producing renew-
2.3. Growing environmental concerns in the mining industry able energies on a desired scale. Using hydrogen, which is more
expensive than charcoal and fossil fuels, in mining operations has no
Mining raises ecological concerns in two ways. The first is using economic justification. Therefore, it is required to undertake further
mechanized equipment and systems for mining operations (from the investigations to identify how to reduce the production costs of
extraction of minerals to the production of final products), which pro- hydrogen used for mineral processing operations through renewable
duces greenhouse gases and pollutes the air at the local and global levels. sources [22].
The second one is associated with mining activities, such as blasting and
processing, which enhances noise pollution and produces dust and 3.2. Required heat in mineral processing operations
chemical-containing waste. These activities negatively impact soil
erosion, land use change, and soil, water, and air pollution, eventually Heat energy is one of the most consumed in mining operations,
posing serious risks to human health and living organisms [20]. particularly mineral processing. Mineral processing entails using a wide
range of temperatures. Temperatures for this mining activity can be
2.4. Growing political and social concerns in the mining industry categorized into three major groups: low temperature (below 150
Celsius), average temperature (between 150 and 400 Celsius), and high
Nowadays, the mining industry is under substantial political and temperature (above 400 Celsius) [22,23]. This variety of temperature
environmental pressure from domestic and foreign shareholders and demands in mineral processing highlights the need for integrating
stakeholders to regulate environmental pollution, reduce the depen- various technologies in mining sites. For example, iron ore processing
dence of mines on fossil fuels, and replace them with renewable fuels. requires heat between 800 and 1200 Celsius in the steel industry. The
These stakeholders include international organizations, governments, temperature needed for copper processing is 250–350 Celsius, and
environmental activists, local communities, and final producers (pur- aluminum processing is 400–500 Celsius. Low- and
chasers), like large producers of electric technologies and renewable medium-temperature heat is generally produced by steam, while direct
energies (T 2020b). Due to the substantial role of the mining industry in heat at high temperatures is mainly generated by fossil fuels [23]. Fossil
the emission of greenhouse gases, host countries and environmentalists fuels provide the high-temperature heat required for mineral processing
have started to enact stricter regulations to control pollution and force in mining. In the production of high-temperature heat, approximately
mines to provide legal and justifiable reports (for example, the possible 65% of coal, 20% of natural gas, and 10% of oil are consumed [22,23].
effects of using fossil fuels on the environment should be estimated in Table 2 indicates that most renewable energy technologies can
environmental assessments, and legal authorities should confirm the supply heat at low and medium temperatures. Among different
acceptable amount of greenhouse gas emission as a prerequisite for
issuing exploitation licenses) [21]. Today, some developed and devel-
Table 2
oping countries that have a leading role in mineral production, such as
Current commercially available renewable energy technologies.
Australia, Chile, and Canada, enact rules and policies and build infra-
Category Technology type Temperature levels
structure for collecting taxes on carbon production from mines, issue
mine green certifications, and encourage mines to substitute renewable Renewable source Biomass, boiler Low
Biomass, high-temperature Medium
energy for conventional energy (fossil fuels) (T 2020a). Generally, all
Biomass, combined-heat-and-power High
mining communities support using renewable energy due to its capacity
Biogas, anaerobic digestion Low
to reduce air and water pollution and its sustainability after mine Solar PV High
closure. As a result, with a rise in demand for energy in mining opera- Wind High
tions in the future, renewable energy will increasingly be incorporated Heat pump Low
Geothermal direct use Low
into mining operations to eliminate the concerns of stakeholders.
Deep geothermal Medium
Energy storage Solar thermal N/A
Hydrogen N/A
Pump storage N/A
Battery storage N/A
4M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
renewable energies, solar energy has the highest potential to be incor- can produce minerals at their optimal capacity. Once the operating costs
porated into this sector. Nevertheless, using solar energy entails a larger exceed the income of the mine, mining operations are ceased. To address
area of land and adequate solar resources to produce the required heat. this issue, all the operating costs required for mining operations should
The concentrated solar energy system can generate heat at a tempera- be measured before the mining project commences. When there is a
ture of 550 Celsius at the industrial level [24]. Studies on solar energy possibility of changing investment costs in a mine (i.e., when the ach-
have reached temperatures at 1000 Celsius using advanced laboratory ieved income surpasses the estimated income), it is feasible to display
facilities [25]. Researchers at the Barbara Hardy Institute could produce more flexibility. These issues in mining raise challenges in the use of
heat ranging from 150 to 700 Celsius using their laboratories’ renewable renewable energy. For example, around 70% of the steel in the world is
energies and hybrid systems (comprising thermal and wind energies and produced in blast furnaces. This technology has built numerous plants in
thermal energy storage) [26]. These degrees of heat have great appli- the last 10–20 years. Considering the long life of blast furnaces, using
cations in processing numerous non-ferrous minerals (such as copper renewable energies in steel production before the life of these technol-
and aluminum) that require medium and high temperatures. ogies ends is not economically justifiable [30]. Identifying ways to
At the time of the present study, charcoal is the only economical reduce CO2 or increase energy efficiency in this industry can be better
energy resource with the potential to produce temperatures above 550 than utilizing renewable energies [30]. For example, in the design and
Celsius. Although charcoal can generate heat at a temperature of 1260 feasibility stage of two copper and nickel projects in Australia, it was
Celsius, finite charcoal and even wood resources place limitations on predicted that the amount of CO2 emitted by a solar-wind-battery-diesel
their constant use [27]. generator (as a backup) hybrid system would be 220,000 tons less than
that emitted by similar diesel-based systems [25]. The current technol-
3.3. Constant energy supply in mining activities ogies to diminish CO2 are quite costly. Carrying out more investigations
to detect effective ways of lessening costs can be a proper option for
The mining industry generally needs high-quality, constant, and factories with blast furnaces. It may lead to the reduction of CO2 emis-
round-the-clock energy. To meet this energy demand through renewable sions in the steel industry. Using renewable energy in the mining in-
energies, merely hydroelectric and geothermal resources can be utilized. dustry is practical and economically acceptable if the mine project is in
However, these resources have certain restrictions as they necessitate the design phase or using renewable energy in the mine is evaluated
using mineral resources. Thus, constant energy production through through feasibility analysis. One of the existing obstacles to using
renewable energy resources faces big challenges and obstacles. Tech- renewable energy in mining sites is a lack of education for mining en-
nologies that combine renewable energies, like wind and solar, seem gineers. Some solutions to bridging this sector gap include holding
more desirable. classes on renewable energy by miners and mining companies, inter-
Nevertheless, they overproduce energy during peak production acting with renewable energy supply companies, and providing mining
hours, which may lead to complications associated with excess energy. A engineers with training programs and reports.
certain amount of this energy can be stored in batteries or consumed in
hydrogen electrolysis. The excess energy can be sold if the mine is 4. Opportunities of renewable energy for the mining industry
connected to the national grid and contracts with relevant organizations
to export electricity to the grid. Storing surplus energy production places Today, new energy production technologies, including renewable
some challenges because the existing technologies for electricity storage energy (like those used for generating energy through wind and solar
in batteries have limitations, and using larger batteries to store more power), are far cheaper than conventional technologies because the
energy may be economically prohibitive. commonly used energies have much higher prices [31]. Using renewable
To tackle this problem, mines are more inclined to use hybrid sys- energy in mining operations can also offer a good opportunity to reduce
tems to supply their excess energy with diesel generators. This solution carbon emissions in mining operations. Furthermore, mine owners and
reduces carbon dioxide emissions, but it does not stop them. Some of companies would be less concerned about fuel price fluctuations.
these hybrid systems are solar-wind-diesel generators, wind-battery- Renewable energy has other benefits for mining companies and gov-
diesel generators, and solar-wind-battery-diesel generators. One of the ernments, such as stimulating economic development, advancing tech-
mines in Australia has a hybrid system of 4 MW wind and 1 MW solar nology in local communities, upgrading social permits for mining
power plants and a battery with 1 MW of storage capacity. This system operations, and forming shared values.
decreases about 70% of the energy produced by diesel generators. This
system uses diesel generators to provide surplus energy [28]. Consid- 4.1. Mining operations
ering the issues mentioned above, many mines currently have the po-
tential to generate a part of their required energy, with an average of Many mining activities are dependent on electric power. Most
30–40% of the total energy consumed in mining sites, by using renew- renewable energy sources that can provide electricity are produced by
able energy resources [6]. burning fossil fuels. On-grid mines have no control over the type of their
electricity supply. Off-grid mining, supported by on-grid electricity
3.4. Renovation of investment structure supply systems, can benefit from renewable energies if necessary. Min-
ing operations directly utilize fossil fuels for their energy supply in both
Mining operations determine the amount of investment in this sector on-grid and off-grid sites. Renewable energy can be used in these mining
to estimate mine life. Mine life varies from 2 to more than 50 years. activities as an alternative to these energy sources that emit greenhouse
Estimating mine life is critical in computing the mining investment gases (Fig. 2).
levels and the return on invested capital (ROIC) [29]. In mining projects, In the United States, fossil fuels are used to produce most of the
fundamental and major decisions are usually made in the pre-feasibility metallic and non-metallic minerals in various mining operations.
and feasibility stages. When a mining site starts operating based on Compared to non-metallic minerals, the production of metals requires
predetermined plans, the facilities and technologies of the mine can be much more energy. In the metal sector, the iron and steel industries are
used for decades. After the necessary investment decisions are made, the biggest energy consumers (about 70% of the energy). The alumina
any alterations in the mine development plan entail the approval of and aluminum industries were ranked second with 14% energy con-
many authorities and organizations and sometimes cause adverse effects sumption [32]. For the production of non-metallic minerals, the highest
on mining operational activities. energy consumption is observed in the cement industry, with 30% en-
Many mining operations are based on an all-or-nothing approach. It ergy use, followed by the glass and lime industries, with 14% and 12% of
means that as long as the operating costs of a mine are covered, the mine energy consumption, respectively.
5M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
Fig. 2. Mining process and associated fuel sources.
In mining, most energy is used to provide heat in the processing and electricity in the United States is supplied by off-grid sources. The energy
smelting stages. Fossil fuels, such as coal and natural gas, supply this resources used to produce this electricity are fossil fuels that can be
energy. This indicates that making plans to reduce the dependence of replaced with renewable energy resources [33].
this mining phase on fossil fuels and use renewable energies to provide The mining industry can use off-grid electricity generated by
the required heat for the processing stage can significantly decrease renewable energies with on-grid electricity backup. In certain cases,
carbon emissions. companies can supply and sell their excess electricity to the grid and
benefit from a good source of income. It can also make renewable energy
(wind, solar, and geothermal energies) more attractive for mine owners
4.2. Response to market demand
and companies. Rio Tinto plans to build a 34 MW solar photovoltaic (PV)
resource with a 12 MWh lithium-ion battery system for the Koodaideri
Renewable energies are essential in altering heavy oil, diesel, and
mine (J 2020). This system provides about 65% of the electricity in
coal consumption patterns in electricity-dependent mining operations.
mines during peak hours. Geothermal energy resources and wind power
For example, the crushing and grinding process is one of the energy-
used to supply electricity to mines in New Guinea and Northern Canada,
intensive activities in mining operations [29]. Studies have demon-
respectively, are other successful cases of renewable energy use (A
strated that 15% of iron and 21% of gold mining energy is consumed in
2016). Fig. 3 depicts a solar energy installation for a gold mine in Mali.
the crushing and grinding stages. Stone crushing and grinding is the only
mining operation whose energy is exclusively supplied by electric
power. Therefore, this mining activity can readily lend itself to renew- 4.3. Fuel supply for equipment and transportation
able energy technology. Another part of mining whose energy is pro-
vided through electricity is the ventilation of underground mines. About Some activities, like ventilation and transportation, directly depend
20% of the total energy needed for gold production in underground on fossil fuels in the mining process. Modifying the equipment in mines
mines is consumed by mine ventilation. In general, 63% of mine makes it feasible to replace fossil fuels with renewable energy for energy
Fig. 3. Solar installation at Fekola gold mine in Mali (’b2gold.com’ 2023).
6M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
supply in some mining activities. 4.6. Use of renewable energies in the mining industry and sustainable
Transporting extracted stones (mineral transportation) is one of the development
highly energy-intensive mining activities. For instance, 10% of the en-
ergy consumed in iron and gold mining is allocated to transportation The concept of sustainable development is thoroughly discussed in
minerals [29]. If the mining industry is determined to lessen carbon other studies. “For more information, see Refs. [3,39–41]”. Given that
emissions, it should devote special attention to this process and plan to one of the main elements of sustainable development is to benefit from
use renewable energy resources as fuel for transportation. However, modern technologies , the bond between sustainable development and
since diesel has always been a major energy source for many mining renewable energy is irrefutable. The use of renewable energy can
operations, including transporting minerals, integrating renewable en- directly or indirectly affect the environmental, social, and economic
ergy resources as fuel into this process is quite challenging [34]. Some indicators of sustainable development (Fig. 4). In this section, the im-
attempts have been made to use electricity, biodiesel (e.g., trucks with pacts of renewable energy on sustainable development indicators are
biodiesel engines), and hydrogen as alternatives to fossil fuels to transfer explicated.
minerals. Nowadays, to follow diesel particulate emission standards, As for the environmental indicator of sustainable development, using
these new energies have received much more attention in underground renewable energy can directly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Due to
mines than in surface mines with larger machines [35]. the high energy consumption in various mining operational stages, using
this technology in each mineral extraction, transportation, processing,
smelting, and refining process brings about significant improvements in
4.4. Substitution in mineral processing operations (alternatives to coal)
the environmental conditions of mines. Integrating this technology into
the mining industry can profoundly eliminate the concerns of environ-
In some mining activities, fossil fuels are used as mineral processing
mentalists and promote the environmental conditions in the mining
materials. For example, coal and natural gas are currently basic raw
area. Moreover, this technology has great potential to prevent the
materials in processing minerals, and substituting renewable energies
emission of greenhouse gases. Therefore, it can hinder the increase of
for them poses big challenges. Some studies have observed that
the Earth’s global average temperature and halt climate change [42].
renewable energy, as an alternative to fossil fuels, can supply 20–30% of
Concerning the social indicator, this technology raises local people’s
feedstocks demanded in processing operations [23]. In converting iron
awareness in mining areas because it requires training. Through
ore into steel, coal (coke) is the main raw material of blast furnaces, and
renewable energy technology, new jobs are also created in these areas.
70% of the steel produced globally relies on coke. Manufacturing 1000
Moreover, reducing greenhouse gases and carbon dioxide in the mining
kg of raw steel entails consuming 780 kg of metallurgical coal (Iron and
areas due to renewable energy use boosts local people’s health. None-
Works 2020). Coal and natural gas are also used for other purposes in
theless, social acceptance is a significant barrier to implementing
steel production. For instance, natural gas combines water and heat to
renewable energy. In other words, a huge challenge in this indicator is to
produce hydrogen and carbon monoxide required to convert iron ore to
make mining communities and local people accept the integration of this
direct-reduced iron [36].
new technology into mining processes. Another challenge is establishing
the necessary infrastructure at the local and academic levels to train
4.5. Creating opportunities for mining communities and a circular people and familiarize them with this technology and its benefits. In
economy effect, culture building at the community level is required to improve
the acceptance by local people, mining companies, and mine owners.
The rapid growth of renewable technologies provides synergistic Another influential factor in renewable energy use is the political will of
opportunities between the mining industry, local and national govern- countries to provide essential resources, support this technology, and
ments, and renewable technology. Most of these sectors depend on create necessary regulations to encourage companies and mine owners
materials that are critical to productivity. In other words, some materials to incorporate this technology into the mining industry. The enactment
in some industries play a vital role in the raw material supply chain. In of well-defined regulations by governments on purchasing the excess
renewable energy technology, these materials include cobalt, lithium, electricity of mines can be among other contributing factors to elevating
nickel, and rare-earth metals. Replacing these materials with other the economic attractiveness of this technology for users.
metals is usually impossible or severely affects the efficiency of this Regarding the economic indicator, mines can earn money by selling
technology [37]. surplus electricity generated by this technology. This technology can
The obstacle to supplying these materials for renewable energy also create circular business by enhancing collaboration between mines
technology is partly posed by political instability and environmental and renewal technology companies. To be more precise, mines and
concerns for extracting these metals. Unstable countries have a signifi-
cant share in producing these minerals; for example, 50% of cobalt in the
world is mined by the Democratic Republic of Congo (Patterson 2018).
Many mines are located in rural and agricultural communities. Sharing
renewable energy with local communities can expand agricultural ac-
tivities and enhance employment opportunities. Therefore, it would
have a long-lasting impact on communities and raise social influences
and political stability. These factors ultimately exert positive effects on
sustainable development goals.
Reducing mining costs by lessening energy costs can elevate
competitiveness and the economic attractiveness of mining communities
and encourage mining companies to carry out mineral processing op-
erations in host countries. It is vital and strategic for many mining
countries to implement this strategy. One of the inhibiting factors for
mineral processing in host countries is a lack of affordable and reliable
energy. Many countries export the produced minerals to countries where
energy costs are lower, and energy supplies are more reliable, making
processing operations more cost-effective [38]. Hence, these countries
are deprived of the added value processed materials produce. Fig. 4. Indicators of sustainable development [20].
7M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
factories supply necessary raw materials to these companies, and these As shown in Fig. 5, the SWOT analysis is at the core of selecting the
companies install and operate this technology in mines. In addition, fuel right mining strategy for applying renewable energy technology. In
price fluctuations substantially affect the cut-off grades of mines. The general, desktop analysis, expert opinion, and site analysis are the most
use of this technology can considerably regulate economic uncertainty frequently used methods for identifying strategic factors [43]. The
in mining projects. On the negative side, one of the major barriers to present study employed all three methods to identify influential internal
employing this technology in the economic indicator is the high costs of and external strategic factors [44,45]. Site analysis was performed to
establishing the infrastructure of renewable technologies. Mines plan- determine external strategic factors that need to be evaluated on a
ning to change their diesel equipment to electric equipment must accept case-by-case basis. Due to the very high volume of data, site analysis is
all the costs of this diesel fuel-to-electric energy conversion. Further- very time-consuming. To reduce the required time, experts in this field
more, the maintenance costs of electric equipment are high. All were consulted. Considering the opinions of qualified experts with high
renewable energy integration costs in mines should be predicted in the experience and expertise would significantly impact the results. It
early feasibility stages. In this analysis, by considering the amounts of should also be noted that the selected expert team in this study were
reserves, the value of minerals, and mine life, the capacity of current direct and indirect stakeholders. The following questions were asked to
equipment and the best option for installing new equipment should be detect influential strategic factors in the use of renewable energy in
determined so that mining projects do not fail. mining.
5. Determining appropriate strategies for renewable energy use • Question 1: What are the strengths and advantages of using renew-
in the mining industry able energy in mining?
In this section, a strategic approach is presented to identify an In SWOT analysis, this question helps identify the strengths of in-
appropriate strategy for the use of renewable energy in mining. To this ternal strategic factors whose implementation may benefit mining
end, the SWOT analysis was adopted to detect internal strategic factors stakeholders. These strong points would positively contribute to
(strengths and weaknesses) and external strategic factors (opportunities implementing renewable energy use plans in mining.
and threats). Four questions were constructed to identify internal and
external strategic factors. Based on the responses to these questions, the • Question 2: What are the weaknesses of using renewable energy in
SWOT matrix was formed. The Internal Factor Evaluation (IFE) and mining?
External Factor Evaluation (EFE) methods evaluated all the specified
strategic factors in the next step. The strategic position for renewable This question helps identify internal strategic factors’ weaknesses,
energy use was then located in the Internal-External (IE) matrix. Even- whose implementation may benefit mining stakeholders in SWOT
tually, the most appropriate strategies for using this new mining tech- analysis. These weak points may pose obstacles to using renewable en-
nology were introduced by considering the identified position. The ergy in mining.
SWOT framework employed to examine renewable energy use in mining
is illustrated in Fig. 5. • Question 3: What opportunities will be provided by using renewable
energy in mining?
This question helps detect the opportunities of external strategic
factors, which stakeholders may face by implementing the project in
SWOT analysis.
• Question 4: What threats will be made by using renewable energy in
mining?
This question helps identify the threats of external strategic factors
stakeholders may face by performing the project in SWOT analysis.
The SWOT matrix was developed once the internal and external
strategic factors were identified. This matrix was comprised of four
parts: two parts for internal factors and two parts for external factors. As
seen in Table 3, four major strategies were found based on the results
obtained from this matrix. In the subsequent stages, these strategies can
be used to incorporate renewable energy in mining and attain the
Table 3
Classification of strategies obtained from SWOT analysis [47].
ID Strategy type Strategy Definition
name
SO Strength- Aggressive maximum use of strengths to take
opportunity advantage of opportunities
strategy
ST Strength-threats Competitive Maximum use of strengths to avoid
strategy potential threats and minimize
them.
WO Weakness- Conservative Reducing weaknesses by exploiting
opportunity the created opportunities
strategy
WT Weakness-threats Defensive avoiding damage caused by
strategy weaknesses against threats and
external factors
Fig. 5. SWOT framework for renewable energy use in mining.
8M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
following goals [46]. weight of each factor shows the relative importance of that factor con-
cerning other external factors. The sum of these weight values equals 1.
(cid:0) Maximizing the use of strengths Based on Table 4, experts give values 1 or 2 to each threat factor and 3 or
(cid:0) Hindering, eliminating, or minimizing the weaknesses 4 to each opportunity factor. The weight score of each factor is calcu-
(cid:0) Making the most of the opportunities created by the implementation lated via Eq (5). Then, Eq (6) is used to compute the overall weight of the
of the project internal factors.
(cid:0) Avoiding possible threats caused by the execution of the project
WS EFj=W EFj×S EFj (5)
∑n (cid:0) )
5.1. Construction of IFE matrix TWS EF= W EFj×S EFj (6)
j=1
The IFE matrix is a strategy tool utilized to quantitatively evaluate where WSEFj, TWSEF, and TWSEF denote the weight score of external
internal strategic factors in the SWOT method. First, the relative weight factor j, the score of external factor j, and the weight score of all the
of each internal strategic factor is calculated using IFE analysis. To do external factors, respectively. The TWSEF value is in the range of 1–4.
this, the importance of each internal factor is initially determined on a Thus, the average TWSEF value is 2.5. The TWSEF value less than 2.5
scale of 1–5 (1 =low importance and 5 =high importance) using ex- reveals that threats outweigh opportunities, whereas the TWSEF value
perts’ opinions. After that, the obtained value for each factor is above 2.5 signifies the superiority of opportunities over threats.
normalized using Eq 1 [48]. The average score of each internal factor is
then calculated as the relative weight of that factor.
5.3. Construction of IE matrix
MVIF
W IFi= ∑n i (1) The IE matrix determines a suitable strategic position for renewable
(MVIF)
i=1 i energy use in mines (Fig. 6). The IE matrix simultaneously assesses
external and internal strategic factors. TWSIF and TWSEF are the hori-
where MVIFi is the average value of the importance of internal
zontal and vertical axes of the IE matrix, respectively. As depicted in
strategic factor i, and WIFi represents the relative weight of internal
Fig. 6, the IE matrix is divided into four sections (blocks), each repre-
factor i. The weight of each factor reflects the importance of that factor
senting a strategic position. The characteristics of each section in Fig. 6
relative to other internal factors, and the sum of these weight values is
are described in Table 5.
equal to 1. Based on Table 4, the experts assign 1 or 2 to each weak factor
and 3 or 4 to each strong factor. The weight score of each factor is
5.4. Determination of appropriate strategy
computed using Eq (2). Afterward, the overall weight of the internal
factors is measured through Eq (3).
The most significant external and internal factors were first detected
WS IFi=W IFi×S IFi (2) to identify the proper strategy for integrating renewable energy in
mines. Then, survey forms were designed and sent to 20 qualified ex-
∑n
perts. Among them, eight experts, whose characteristics are provided in
TWS IF= (W IFi×S IFi) (3)
Table 6, completed the forms. The experts’ responses were analyzed
i=1
using the SWOT method, and the influential strategic factors were
where WSIFi, SIFi, TWSIF are the weight score of internal factor i, the
identified. These factors are provided in Table 7.
score of internal factor i, and the weight score of all the internal factors.
After data collection from the experts, the SWOT matrix was con-
As the TWSIF the value ranges from 1 to 4, and the average value is 2.5.
structed and the TWSIF and TWSEF values were calculated through Eqs
When the TWSIF value is less than 2.5; weaknesses outweigh strengths. (1)–(6). The results of the IEF and EFE matrices are reported in Table 8.
Conversely, the TWSIF value above 2.5 indicates the superiority of
Values in Table 8 were rounded to 3 decimal places.
strengths over weaknesses [46].
As seen in Table 8, the integration of renewable energy in mining is
located in Part II, i.e., the aggressive strategy. Therefore, all the
5.2. 5-2- Construction of EFE matrix strengths of this technology should be considered to take advantage of
the opportunities created in the mining industry (Fig. 7).
The EFE matrix analyzes external strategic factors quantitatively. Given the position of the strategy obtained from the SWOT analysis
The calculation of EFE is similar to that of IFE. The only difference is that
in EFE, external factors (e.g., opportunities and threats) are considered
in the analysis. The relative weights of external factors are calculated
using Eq (4).
MVEF
W EFj= ∑n (cid:0) j ) (4)
MVEF
j
j=1
where MVEFj is the average value of the importance of external
strategic factor j, and WEFj represents the weight of external factor j. The
Table 4
Description of scores for internal and external strategic factors (David and David
2016).
Score Definition of internal factors Definition of external factors
1 Major weakness Major Threat
2 Minor weakness Minor Threat
3 Minor strength Minor opportunity
4 Major strength Major opportunity
Fig. 6. IE matrix.
9M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
Table 5 Table 7
Characteristics of strategic positions in IE matrix. Strategic factors identified for renewable energy use in mining.
Block Strategic Description Suitable strategy Factor Number Definition
number position approach
Strengths (S) S1 Possibility of supplying energy and interacting with
I Conservative TWSIF<2.5& Conservative strategies other technologies
TWSEF≥2.5 (WO) S2 High production capacity
II Aggressive TWSIF≥2.5& Aggressive strategies S3 Cost-effectiveness of renewable energy use
TWSEF≥2.5 (SO) S4 Minimization of economic uncertainty caused by
III Defensive TWSIF<2.5& Defensive strategies fluctuations in fossil fuel prices
TWSEF<2.5 (WT) S5 Elimination of greenhouse gas emission
IV Competitive TWSIF≥2.5& Competitive staratgies S6 Possibility of using and supporting the national
TWSEF<2.5 (ST) electricity grid in case of a lack of energy supply
S7 Alignment with sustainable development indicators
Weaknesses (W) W1 Lack of management and support systems, including
proper infrastructure, training programs, etc.
Table 6 W2 Lack of orientation programs for mine owners
Characteristics of an expert team. W3 Need for a large space.
W4 High maintenance costs
Skill Education Number of persons W5 Inability to reach a temperature of 550◦
Academic member Ph.D 4 W6 No guarantee of providing constant energy
Private stakeholder Ph.D 1 Opportunities O1 Use of government-granted facilities for investment
Academic students Ph.D 1 (O) O2 High capacity of the mining industry for renewable
MS.c 2 energy use
O3 Possibility of selling surplus production to the
national electricity grid
for the inclusion of renewable energy in mining, the appropriate stra- O4 Creation of new jobs in the mining industry
tegies for using this technology in the mining industry are presented in O5 Possibility of using renewable energy in all stages of
mining
Table 9.
O6 Reduction of cut-off grade in mines by removing
fossil fuel energy and using renewable energy
6. Discussion O7 Possibility of creating a two-way economy between
the mining and renewable energy industries
O8 Pressure from the international community to reduce
Although there is great potential for using renewable energy in
greenhouse gases
mines, the ratio of renewable energy consumption to the total energy
O9 Transfer of new science and technologies to local
consumption in the mining industry is still very low. This issue will be communities
thoroughly explained in this section. By discussing the opportunities and Threats (T) T1 Lack of high-quality equipment due to sanctions and
obstacles of integrating renewable energy in mining sites with mining a lack of effective global interaction
T2 Weakness of existing rules in renewable energy use
experts and stakeholders, effective and practical solutions for elimi-
T3 Obstacles posed by the local community and some
nating the challenges of this sector can be identified. relevant executive organizations
Integrating renewable energy into mining operations initiates a sig- T4 high initial investment costs
nificant transformation in the energy consumption landscape within T5 high bank facility interest rates
T6 An imbalance between granted facilities and required
mines, transitioning away from fossil fuel reliance towards sustainable
investment
renewable sources. This pivotal shift has profound implications, gener-
T7 Dependence on the technology of foreign countries
ating noteworthy political and social changes at both local and inter- T8 limited after-sales services
national levels. For instance, adopting renewable energies displaces T9 Use of Hydrogen energy as an alternative to wind and
traditional job roles while simultaneously fostering new employment solar energy
T10 Challenges of changing machinery infrastructure for
opportunities and skill sets associated with renewable energy technol-
the replacement of diesel fuels with clean energy
ogy. This transition is particularly evident in nations with robust mining fuels
sectors that exhibit substantial energy consumption. In these economies T11 Rejection by miners due to high investment costs and
heavily reliant on mining activities, the recalibration of energy con- traditional management attitudes
T12 Lack of experts in the field of renewable energy
sumption patterns effectively reallocates substantial resources from the
traditional fossil fuel supply chain to the burgeoning renewable energy
supply chain. The economic feasibility of the domestic fossil fuel supply equipment. A mining operation’s profitability typically commences in
chain versus the import-dependent renewable energy supply chain the second year and can extend to five decades or more. Conversely, the
varies from one country to another. In specific cases, it becomes evident profitability associated with renewable energy technology tends to have
that the domestic fossil fuel infrastructure may no longer be economi- a much shorter horizon, often limited to around eight years. This
cally justifiable compared to the renewable energy alternative. In such discrepancy in the lifespans of mining assets and renewable energy
scenarios, the determination of national governments and policymakers equipment and the differing profit timelines between mining and
plays a pivotal role in driving the transition from fossil fuel dependency renewable energy technology present formidable challenges when
to the adoption of renewable energy, along with the essential develop- negotiating agreements between mining and renewable energy
ment of the necessary infrastructure for these innovative technologies. enterprises.
The primary obstacle hindering the widespread adoption of renew- Companies, mine owners, and governments generally do not
able energy lies in the misalignment between the commercial and in- consider renewable energy use in the planning process of a mine.
come incentives of the mining industry and those of the renewable Research has shown that mining engineers responsible for designing a
energy supply sector. When a mine’s reserves are depleted, or mineral mine lack the skills and expertise to integrate renewable energy into
prices decrease, it signals the end of its productive life, often leading to mine designs. Due to a lack of knowledge about renewable energy and
closure. In stark contrast, investments in renewable energy and power its combination with other energies, governments in many countries
purchase agreements typically operate on long-term horizons. Com- where mining accounts for a large portion of GDP usually limit the
pounding this misalignment, there is a lack of synchronization between accessibility of mines to renewable energy and pose obstacles to its
the lifespan of a mining operation and that of renewable energy application in mines.
10M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
Table 8
Results of IFE and EFE matrices for renewable energy use in mining.
IFE Matrices EFE Matrices
Internal FC WIFi SIFi WSIFi TWSIF External FC WEFi SEFi WSEFi TWSEF
S1 0.047 3 0.14 2.953 O1 0.028 3 0.083 2.681
S2 0.07 4 0.279 O2 0.056 4 0.222
S3 0.116 4 0.465 O3 0.014 3 0.042
S4 0.047 3 0.14 O4 0.042 4 0.167
S5 0.093 4 0.372 O5 0.042 4 0.167
S6 0.093 4 0.372 O6 0.069 4 0.278
S7 0.14 4 0.558 O7 0.056 4 0.222
W1 0.047 1 0.047 O8 0.069 4 0.278
W2 0.07 2 0.14 O9 0.042 3 0.125
W3 0.023 1 0.023 T1 0.042 2 0.083
W4 0.093 1 0.093 T2 0.056 2 0.111
W5 0.07 2 0.14 T3 0.056 2 0.111
W6 0.093 2 0.186 T4 0.042 2 0.083
T5 0.069 2 0.139
T6 0.028 1 0.028
T7 0.069 2 0.139
T8 0.069 2 0.139
T9 0.028 2 0.056
T10 0.042 1 0.042
T11 0.042 2 0.083
T12 0.042 2 0.083
medium-scale mines, it is essential to integrate this technology into the
mining industry, access the existing tools, and provide training in the
feasibility stage. Renewable energy development companies, skilled
engineers, research institutes, and independent individuals can provide
these capacities and facilities. Universities also play a significant role in
transferring this knowledge.
Addressing the multifaceted challenges and barriers associated with
integrating renewable energy within the mining sector necessitates
further exploration and concerted efforts. The mining industry, in
particular, seeks cost-effective solutions that can seamlessly incorporate
renewable energy sources with varying capacities into mining opera-
tions. Furthermore, there is a growing demand for renewable energy
technologies capable of producing high-temperature heat, offering more
economical energy storage options, and providing extended storage
capabilities. Research and development initiatives are indispensable in
this context to facilitate the transition from diesel-powered machinery to
electric equipment within mines and enhance the energy efficiency of
material transportation processes. It is worth noting that advancements
Fig. 7. Results of strategic evaluation of renewable energy use in mining via
in renewable energy research and development can extend their benefits
SWOT method.
beyond mining, positively impacting other sectors such as food pro-
cessing and the chemical industry. One prominent challenge is securing
It is possible to mount this equipment in mining areas; however, it
the necessary resources and capital for the widespread implementation
presents challenges to using this technology. Another barrier to using
and expansion of renewable energy solutions in mining operations.
this technology in mines is the availability of land to install renewable
Many mines are situated close to local communities, offering a unique
energy equipment. Furthermore, mining engineers have no or little
opportunity for collaboration. Joint energy systems that serve the min-
knowledge about suitable land cover types and proper locations for
ing site and the neighboring community could be a promising avenue,
installing solar PV and wind turbines in mining sites.
particularly for small- and medium-scale mining enterprises. Such
Many mining companies enter into electricity supply and purchase
partnerships can provide the community with an additional and reliable
contracts without giving due consideration to the misalignment of in-
energy source, provided that logistical costs, such as wiring, are mini-
centives related to renewable energy adoption. Conversely, smaller and
mized. Effective policies and regulations play a pivotal role in fostering
medium-sized mining enterprises tend to approach investments in this
symbiotic relationships between mining enterprises and the commu-
realm with caution due to concerns about the inflexibility of renewable
nities in which they operate. Establishing robust interactions between
energy solutions. Implementing supportive structures for surplus elec-
the mining industry and host governments is essential for developing
tricity purchase, grounded in a well-defined framework, represents an
more efficient regulations, ultimately promoting the successful inte-
effective policy avenue for incentivizing companies to embrace renew-
gration of renewable energy technologies within mining operations.
able energy technology. Facilitating robust interactions between the
Like mine-community interactions, government policies and regu-
energy and mineral sectors to facilitate these contractual agreements,
lations are fundamental in many approaches to renewable energy use in
along with host governments actively engaging in purchasing excess
mines. These interactions are increasing globally to augment coopera-
electricity, presents a compelling opportunity to invigorate local econ-
tion and the use of these resources. Nonetheless, these efforts can be
omies, bolster tax revenues, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and ul-
hindered locally, especially in countries rich in mineral resources. In
timately foster the widespread adoption of renewable energy technology
most of these countries, regulations for using renewable energy have not
within the mining industry.
been established. Some of these countries have recently reviewed and
To enhance renewable energy use in mines, especially in small and
11M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
Table 9 provided by renewable energy technology for the production of goods.
Suitable strategies for using renewable energy in mining using results of SWOT Joint efforts between the mining industry, the energy industry, inter-
analysis. national organizations, and host governments are necessary to create
Strength (S) Opportunities (O) Strategies based on (SO) efficient policies and regulations on applying this technology.
approach Governments can take several measures to facilitate using renewable
• S1: Possibility of • O4: Creation of new • SO1: Creating the energy for mines, including tax exemptions, the provision of loans with
supplying energy and jobs in the mining necessary platform for low-interest rates, and the construction of required infrastructure for the
interacting with other industry training specialists and guaranteed purchase of surplus electricity. These measures provide
technologies • O7: Possibility of updating the desirable conditions for companies and mine owners and encourage
• S7: Alignment with creating a two-way educational system of
them to use renewable energies.
sustainable economy between the universities to enhance
development indicators mining and renewable knowledge on the A strategic examination of the utilization of renewable energy within
energy industries benefits of renewable the mining sector reveals a dual potential for both internal and external
• O9: Transfer of new energy use benefits. Leveraging the inherent strengths of renewable energy tech-
science and
nology in mining operations presents external opportunities that hold
technologies to local
communities significant promise.
• S5: Elimination of • O1: Use of • SO2: Modifying Recognizing these strengths, mining stakeholders can proactively
greenhouse gas government-granted management plans and harness the potential opportunities renewable energy adoption offers.
emission facilities for setting effective To maximize these strengths and fully exploit the associated opportu-
• S7: Alignment with investment policies; Granting long-
sustainable • O8: Pressure from the term facilities with low- nities, the following strategic recommendations are proposed.
development indicators international interest rates and
community to reduce providing tax exemp- 1. Establishing a Knowledge Platform: Create a robust educational
greenhouse gases tions for the use of this foundation by establishing platforms for training specialists and
technology
updating university curricula to disseminate knowledge about the
• S3: Cost-effectiveness • O3: Possibility of • SO3: Developing new
advantages of renewable energy utilization within the mining sector.
of renewable energy selling surplus regulations on the
use production to the purchase of surplus 2. Adapt Management and Policy: Modify existing management
• S4: Minimization of national electricity energy by the plans and formulate appropriate policies that incentivize and facili-
economic uncertainty grid government to support tate the integration of renewable energy technology in mining
caused by fluctuations • O6: Reduction of cut- renewable energy
operations.
in fossil fuel prices off grade in mines by producers; making
• S6: Possibility of using removing fossil fuel necessary 3. Financial Support: Provide long-term financial facilities with
and supporting the energy and using modifications in the favorable interest rates and offer tax exemptions to encourage the
national electricity grid renewable energy mining laws and seamless incorporation of renewable energy solutions into mining
in case of a lack of regulations of
activities.
energy supply countries.
• S2: High production • O2: High capacity of • SO4: Using all available 4. Government Energy Procurement Regulations: Institute new
capacity the mining industry capacities in mines to regulations governing governments’ purchase of surplus energy,
• S6: Possibility of using for renewable energy construct inclusive thereby providing crucial support to renewable energy producers
and supporting the use mining sites (operating and fostering a conducive environment for their growth.
national electricity grid • O5: Possibility of using all mining processes
5. Integrated Mining Sites: Harness the full potential of mining sites
in case of a lack of renewable energy in from extraction to
energy supply all stages of mining processing) to make by optimizing their capacity and transitioning toward inclusive
maximum use of this mining sites that encompass all mining activities from extraction to
technology and meet processing. This approach ensures maximum utilization of renew-
the demands of
able energy technology and helps meet consumer energy needs,
consumers in case of a
especially in energy scarcity.
lack of energy.
• S2: High production • O2: High capacity of • SO5: Changing 6. Revise Macroeconomic Policies: Initiate a shift in the macro-policy
capacity the mining industry attitudes in macro- landscape of mining within countries by implementing new regula-
• S4: Minimization of for renewable energy policy of mining in tions to replace fossil fuel-based energy with renewable energy in
economic uncertainty use countries and creating
caused by fluctuations • O4: Creation of new new regulations to mining operations. Consider making using renewable energy in
in fossil fuel prices jobs in the mining replace fossil energy mines a mandatory requirement in the medium term.
• S5: Elimination of industry with renewable energy
greenhouse gas • O5: Possibility of using in mining. By strategically implementing these recommendations, the mining
emission renewable energy in • SO6: Developing
industry can tap into the inherent strengths of renewable energy tech-
• S7: Alignment with all stages of mining essential regulations to
sustainable • O6: Reduction of cut- make renewable energy nology, capitalize on external opportunities, and contribute to a more
development indicators off grade in mines by use obligatory for sustainable and environmentally conscious future.
removing fossil fuel miners in the medium
energy and using term 7. Conclusion
renewable energy
• O9: Transfer of new
science and Renewable energy is a paramount challenge and opportunity in the
technologies to local contemporary energy landscape. The convergence of escalating global
communities population growth and industrialization across numerous nations has
amplified the demand for essential raw materials, notably minerals. It is
worth noting that mining operations are among the primary contribu-
revised the regulations on integrating this technology into mining
tors to greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in underdeveloped and
operations.
developing regions, primarily driven by the extensive use of fossil fuels.
Renewable energy can support production by reducing energy con-
Consequently, renewable energy emerges as a pivotal alternative to curb
sumption and costs. In many developing countries, government policies
fossil fuel dependence within mining practices. This article embarks on a
force companies to supply a certain percentage of intermediate goods
comprehensive exploration of diverse facets related to integrating
from domestic sources. Countries can also benefit from the opportunities
renewable energy solutions in mining operations. Using renewable
12M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
energy brings forth multifaceted advantages that elevate the sustain- [3] Mahdi Pouresmaieli, Morteza Osanloo, Establishing a model to reduce the risk of
ability quotient within the mining sector. premature mine closure, in: IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental
Science, IOP Publishing, 2019, 012005.
Using renewable energy sources within mining operations offers a [4] Alice Strazzabosco, Gruenhagen Jan Henrik, Stephen Cox, A Review of Renewable
spectrum of compelling advantages. These encompass a notable reduc- Energy Practices in the Australian Mining Industry, Renewable Energy, 2022.
tion in environmental pollution, the enhancement of mining-related [5] Tsisilile Igogo, Travis Lowder, Jill Engel-Cox, Alexandra M. Newman,
Kwame Awuah-Offei, ’Integrating Clean Energy in Mining Operations:
knowledge, the generation of new employment opportunities, the pro-
Opportunities, Challenges, and Enabling Approaches, 2020.
motion of circular economic models, the mitigation of greenhouse gas [6] Nicolas Maennling, Perrine Toledano, The renewable power of the mine, Available
emissions, the dissemination of novel scientific and technological ad- at SSRN 3661616 (2018).
[7] Michelle Levesque, Dean Millar, Jacek Paraszczak, ’Energy and mining–the home
vancements to local communities, and the prospect of surplus energy truths’, J. Clean. Prod. 84 (2014) 233–255.
production being channeled into the national power grid. However, the [8] Terry Norgate, Nawshad Haque, ’Energy and greenhouse gas impacts of mining
integration of renewable energy in mining confronts a host of formi- and mineral processing operations’, J. Clean. Prod. 18 (2010) 266–274.
[9] Fritz TC. Ro¨ben, Diran Liu, Markus A. Reuter, Manuel Dahmen, Andr´e Bardow,
dable challenges. These encompass a lack of awareness among mine
’The demand response potential in copper production’, J. Clean. Prod. (2022),
owners regarding the advantages of renewable energy adoption, resis- 132221.
tance from traditional management practices entrenched in the mining [10] Gang Lin, Yanan Zhao, Jingying Fu, Dong Jiang, Renewable energy in China’s
abandoned mines, Science 380 (2023) 699–700.
industry, substantial initial investment costs, ambiguous legal frame-
[11] Yan Zhang, Sidra Bibi, Azer Dilanchiev, ’Mineral and fossil fuel extraction policies:
works governing renewable energy application in mining, uncertainties a diversified portfolio approach to managing price volatility’, Extr. Ind. Soc. 15
surrounding energy supply guarantees for mining operations, a scarcity (2023), 101314.
of specialized labor, elevated maintenance expenses, infrastructure [12] B.C. McLellan, G.D. Corder, D.P. Giurco, K.N. Ishihara, ’Renewable energy in the
minerals industry: a review of global potential’, J. Clean. Prod. 32 (2012) 32–44.
adaptation requirements, substantial bank charges, and the imperative [13] Fernando Sitorus, Pablo R. Brito-Parada, The selection of renewable energy
need for expansive spatial considerations. These challenges collectively technologies using a hybrid subjective and objective multiple criteria decision
shape the landscape of renewable energy integration within mining and making method, Expert Syst. Appl. 206 (2022), 117839.
[14] Anqi Zeng, Wu Chen, Rasmussen Kasper Dalgas, Xuehong Zhu, Maren Lundhaug,
necessitate strategic planning and innovative solutions to surmount Daniel B. Müller, Juan Tan, Keiding Jakob K, Litao Liu, Tao Dai, ’Battery
them. technology and recycling alone will not save the electric mobility transition from
In the subsequent analysis, the SWOT framework, a widely employed future cobalt shortages’, Nat. Commun. 13 (2022) 1–11.
[15] Emma Elgqvist, Ricardo Castillo, Emily Newes, Jill Engel-Cox, Luis Zorrilla,
strategic management tool, was employed to discern the inherent
Integration of clean energy into oil field operations, in: National Renewable Energy
weaknesses, strengths, opportunities, and threats associated with Lab.(NREL), 2022. Golden, CO (United States).
adopting renewable energy within mining operations. Subsequently, [16] Ka Yin Chau, Massoud Moslehpour, Yu-Te Tu, Nguyen Tan Tai, Nguyen
Hoang Tien, Pham Quang Huy, exploring the impact of green energy and
expert insights were leveraged using the SWOT framework to derive a
consumption on the sustainability of natural resources: empirical evidence from G7
strategic perspective on integrating renewable energy within the mining countries, Renew. Energy (2022).
sector. The outcomes of this SWOT analysis underscore the imperative [17] Terry E. Norgate, Sharf Jahanshahi, William J. Rankin, ’Assessing the
environmental impact of metal production processes’, J. Clean. Prod. 15 (2007)
for mining enterprises to leverage their capabilities and embrace
838–848.
renewable energy solutions to capitalize on the opportunities that arise [18] Terry Norgate, Nawshad Haque, Michael Somerville, Sharif Jahanshahi, ’Biomass
from their implementation fully. Consequently, it is becoming increas- as a source of renewable carbon for iron and steelmaking’, ISIJ Int. 52 (2012)
ingly evident that mining-dependent nations will need to embrace this
1472–1481.
[19] Stephen Lezak, Charles Cannon, Thomas Koch Blank, ’Low-carbon Metals for a
transformative technology within their mining operations shortly. Low-Carbon World: a New Energy Paradigm for Mines, vol. 6, Rock Mountain
Furthermore, the utilization of renewable energy within mining opera- Institute, 2019.
tions aligns harmoniously with sustainable development objectives and [20] Elena Ekrami, Mahdi Pouresmaieli, Elham sadat Hashemiyoon, Negin Noorbakhsh,
Matin Mahmoudifard, ’Nanotechnology: a Sustainable Solution for Heavy Metals
is poised to play a pivotal role in ensuring the long-term sustainability of Remediation, Environmental Nanotechnology, Monitoring & Management, 2022,
mining practices. 100718.
[21] Dou Shiquan, Deyi Xu, Yongguang Zhu, Rodney Keenan, Critical mineral
sustainable supply: Challenges and governance, Futures (2023), 103101.
Credit author statement [22] Fatih Birol, ’The Future of Hydrogen: Seizing Today’s Opportunities’, IEA Report
prepared for the G, 2019, p. 20.
Mahdi Pouresmaieli: Conceptualization, Methodology, Formal [23] IRENA, A Background Paper to “Renewable Energy in Manufacturing”,
analysis, Writing – original draft Mohammad Ataei.: Methodology, International Renewable Energy Agency Abu Dhabi, 2015.
[24] Sean J. Ericson, Jill Engel-Cox, Douglas J Arent, Approaches for integrating
Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Ali renewable energy technologies in oil and gas operations, in: National Renewable
Nouri Qarahasanlou., Formal analysis, Writing – original draft, Writing – Energy Lab.(NREL), 2019. Golden, CO (United States).
review & editing, Abbas Barabady, Writing - Review & Editin, [25] T Jis li ls i Eli nl ge eI lg -Cog oo x,, ’K Iw nta em gre
a
tA inw gu ra eh n- eO wff ae bi,
l
eA ele nx ea rn gd yr ia
n
tN oe mwm ina inn g, T or pa ev ri as
t
iL oo nw s:d er,
Supervision. opportunities, challenges, and enabling approaches’, Appl. Energy 300 (2021),
117375.
[26] Rhys Jacob, Martin Belusko, Ming Liu, Wasim Saman, Frank Bruno, ’Using
Declaration of competing interest renewables coupled with thermal energy storage to reduce natural gas
consumption in higher temperature commercial/industrial applications’, Renew.
Energy 131 (2019) 1035–1046.
The authors declare that they have no known competing conflict of [27] Zhilong Cheng, Jian Yang, Lang Zhou, Yan Liu, Qiuwang Wang, ’Characteristics of
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence charcoal combustion and its effects on iron-ore sintering performance’, Appl.
the work reported in this paper. Energy 161 (2016) 364–374.
[28] Omar Behar, Daniel Sbarbaro, Luis Moran, ’Which is the most competitive solar
power technology for integration into the existing copper mining plants:
Data availability photovoltaic (PV), Concentrating Solar Power (CSP), or hybrid PV-CSP?’, J. Clean.
Prod. 287 (2021), 125455.
[29] Anil Kumar Katta, Matthew Davis, Kumar Amit, Development of disaggregated
No data was used for the research described in the article.
energy use and greenhouse gas emission footprints in Canada’s iron, gold, and
potash mining sectors, Resour. Conserv. Recycl. 152 (2020), 104485.
References [30] Arnout de Pee, Dickon Pinner, Occo Roelofsen, Ken Somers, Decarbonization of
Industrial Sectors: the Next Frontier, 2018.
[31] Lazard, ’Levelized Cost of Energy and Levelized Cost of Storage’, 2020.
[1] Mahdi Pouresmaieli, Morteza Osanloo, A valuation approach to investigate the
[32] Kang Wang, Youyi Song, Zhihao Huang, Yibo Sun, Jinghua Xu, Shuyou Zhang,
[2]
s M Gu iis gnt oa e i Jn P aa l nab dnil ini et i ry n
i
g ,o ’f &
A
s o gEr eqk nuh eie rp- amd li iez zna edj t i Sr meo l on e
d
co etr i le o
f
n om ,
r
i Sn ap se sr o ein sf g sI ier na r g,n 2,
a
i 0 nn 1 d: 9 I i,n
n
t p te epr n.n s4a ift 3 yi 1o in–n g4a 4l
t
h6S ey . m rep co ys ci lu inm
g
o on
f
’ faA bd rd icit ai tv ie
n
gm la an ttu icfa ec stu trr uin ctg
u
e ren e br ag sy
e
dc o on ns u rm ecp at li lo an
b
lem mea us lu tr imem oden at
l
fa un sd
io
p nr e nd ei tc wti oo rn
k
’i ,n
Measurement 196 (2022), 111215.
metal-bearing industrial waste: a new approach to the resource policy of
manganese industry in Georgia’, Resour. Pol. 75 (2022), 102462.
13M. Pouresmaieli et al. R e s u l t s i n E n g i n e e r i n g20(2023)101412
[33] David Palchak, Jaquelin Cochran, Ranjit Deshmukh, Ehlen Ali, R. Soonee, [42] In˜igo Capella´n-P´erez, Carlos De Castro, Luis Javier Miguel Gonza´lez, Dynamic
S. Narasimhan, Mohit Joshi, Brendan McBennett, Michael Milligan, Energy Return on Energy Investment (EROI) and material requirements in
Sreedharan Priya, GREENING the GRID: Pathways to Integrate 175 Gigawatts of scenarios of global transition to renewable energies, Energy Strategy Rev. 26
Renewable Energy into India’s Electric Grid, vol. I, national study, 2017. (2019), 100399.
[34] Wangsa, Ivan Darma, Iwan Vanany, Nurhadi Siswanto, ’A sustainable supply chain [43] C.R. Smyth, V. Krebs, Application of SWOT-C analysis and state-and-transition
coordination model with an investment in green technology and electric modeling to the design of reclamation plans for abandoned or operating mines in
equipment’, Int. J. Syst. Sci.: Operations & Logistics 10 (2023), 2221078. British Columbia, In.’statista.com’ 2023 (2019). https://www.statista.com/stati
[35] Petrus J. Terblanche, Michael P. Kearney, Clay S. Hearn, Peter F. Knights, stics/262858/change-in-opec-crude-oil-prices-since-1960/.
’Technology selection and sizing of on-board energy recovery systems to reduce [44] Sphiwe Emmanuel Mhlongo, Francis Amponsah-Dacosta,
fuel consumption of diesel-electric mine haul trucks.’, in: Energy Efficiency in the Kadyamatimba Armstrong, ’Appraisal of strategies for dealing with the physical
Minerals Industry, Springer, 2018. hazards of abandoned surface mine excavations: a case study of Frankie and Nyala
[36] Rutger Gyllenram, Niloofar Arzpeyma, Wenjing Wei, Jo¨nsson Pa¨r G, ’Driving mines in South Africa’, Minerals 10 (2020) 145. ’MINING ENERGY
investments in ore beneficiation and scrap upgrading to meet an increased demand CONSUMPTION ’. Accessed 7/30/2022, https://www.ceecthefuture.org/resour
from the direct reduction-EAF route’, Mineral Econ. 35 (2022) 203–220. ces/mining-energy-consumption-2021.
[37] Vidyadhar V. Gedam, D Raut Rakesh, Ana Beatriz, Jabbour Lopes de Sousa, [45] Ana Manero, Marit Kragt, Rachel Standish, Ben Miller, David Jasper, Boggs Guy,
Nishant Agrawal, ’Moving the circular economy forward in the mining industry: Renee Young, A framework for developing completion criteria for mine closure and
challenges to closed-loop in an emerging economy’, Resour. Pol. 74 (2021), rehabilitation, J. Environ. Manag. 273 (2020), 111078.
102279. [46] David, Fred R, and Forest R David. 2016. Strategic management: A competitive
[38] Chuke Chen, Zhihan Jiang, Nan Li, Heming Wang, Peng Wang, Zhihe Zhang, advantage approach, concepts and cases (Pearson-Prentice Hall).
Chao Zhang, Fengmei Ma, Yuanyi Huang, Xiaohui Lu, Advancing Un Comtrade for [47] Sudabe Shahba, Reza Arjmandi, Masoud Monavari, Jamal Ghodusi, ’Application of
physical trade flow analysis: review of data quality issues and solutions, Resour. multi-attribute decision-making methods in SWOT analysis of mine waste
Conserv. Recycl. 186 (2022), 106526. management (case study: sirjan’s Golgohar iron mine, Iran)’, Resour. Pol. 51
[39] Arash Ebrahimabadi, Mahdi Pouresmaieli, Alireza Afradi, Esmaeil Pouresmaeili, (2017) 67–76.
Sahand Nouri, ’Comparing two methods of PROMETHEE and Fuzzy TOPSIS in [48] Mohammad Mehdi Tahernejad, Mohammad Ataei, R. Khalokakaei, A strategic
selecting the best plant species for the reclamation of Sarcheshmeh copper mine’, analysis of Iran’s dimensional stone mines using SWOT method, Arabian J. Sci.
Asian J. Water Environ. Pollut. 15 (2018) 141–152. Eng. 38 (2013) 149–154.
[40] Mahdi Pouresmaieli, Mohammad Ataei, Pegah Forouzandeh, Paridokht Azizollahi,
Matin Mahmoudifard, ’Recent progress on sustainable phytoremediation of heavy
metals from soil’, J. Environ. Chem. Eng. (2022), 108482. Further reading
[41] Mahdi Pouresmaieli, Mohammad Ataei, Qarahasanlou Ali Nouri, ’A scientometrics
view on sustainable development in surface mining: everything from the [49] Mehdi Pouresmaieli, Mohammad Ataei, Taran Amirhossein, Future mining based
beginning’, Resour. Pol. 82 (2023), 103410. on internet of things (IoT) and sustainability challenges, Int. J. Sustain. Develop.
World Ecol. (2022) 1–18.
14